All right, so just for fun.
This is an example of a dribble
animation that we would take a look at,
and try to recreate this animation using,
well, in this case, just CSS.
But I'll also like to do is open
the video in a new tab [COUGH].
And so this makes it a lot easier to just
grab through and see what I could build.
So there is a few elements in here,
some of which we have talked about.
There's that's over there
where we are showing the text.
And then we are, hold on,
let me just try go back to it,
wherever it is, yeah, so it's over here.
So we see the text pretty big,
and then it sort of zooms out.
So it's a pretty cool effect,
and so let's actually start
there because we're doing
both our animation stuff and
we're also doing a little
bit of choreography.
So let's see, first things first,
I'm gonna get this color.
And so we're going to go over here and
actually add a style tag.
So, link:css.
And so this is completely
from scratch by the way.
So you're seeing me do all this live.
All right, so we're going to
just import our base CSS.
See how we did there?
Okay, there we go.
Okay, so now to get started
let's actually add some HTML.
This is the first step when we're
working with any animation.
So inside of our body we
gonna have two things.
We gonna have this build your wealth
thing, and also secure your legacy.
So that looks like two h1 tags, so
I'm just gonna call this
Build your animations and
Secure your development skills.
[LAUGH] Just changing
the words a little bit there.
And let's also add the font family,
some sort of serif.
Yeah, you know what, I'm just gonna do
serif let's hope for the best over here.
So also the background we
wants to grab that color.
And so that's gonna be background-color,
whatever that is, that dark green.
And so the color color is going to be?
Let's find out.
Almost white.
So there's one little E over there, and
I guess that's just to make it just
barely off white, which is cool I guess.
And when we're looking
at the layout over here,
we're not gonna do all of these
rectangles, maybe just three or four.
But we see that it is aligned in the
center and it's also aligned in a column.
And so
what that tells me is that we use Flexbox.
So display: flex, flex-direction column.
There we go.
And align-items: center,
justify-content: center.
Okay, so let's see how that looks so far.
Let's see we're gonna go back here,
not there, and examples/dribble.
Okay, good enough, good start, right?
So now we want to just adjust
the font sizes over here.
So this is just going to be font-size.
Let's do it based on the viewpoint width.
So let's do maybe 5vw see how that looks,
looks pretty big.
So maybe 8vw and margin 0, Way too big.
So we'll just do 6vw, and call it a day.
Okay, cool.
So again, what's gonna happen is
at first it's going to zoom in and
then it's gonna zoom out.
So we're showing the first one, and
then we're both zooming out and
showing the second one.
So let me just grab the color
of this second one real quick.
Okay, so we could do +h1 color, and again,
this is sort of scrappy coding but
it's okay.
And let me just bump
this back down to 5vw.
Okay, so now let's do our animations.
So when planning
an animation especially for
a dribble app like, sorry,
a dribble design like this.
It's useful to think in a series of steps.
So the first step is the first
heading showing, and
then the second step, so
one, two, the second step is
zooming out or scaling down and
showing the second one.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Now since both of them are moving
together it sort of makes
sense to wrap those both in the div,
just like this.
And I think in terms of time we'll
just do the headings and show you, and
hopefully get that working.
So I'm just gonna call
this class= "headings".
There used to be a heading tag in HTML.
They got rid of it for some reason.
I'm still really upset about that,
but yeah,
you have div class= "headings"
[COUGH] to do that.
So okay, let's do our animation.
So first I'm gonna add keyframes for
headings, yeah,
the whatever I call it headings.
And so this is first going to be
translated down and zoomed in.
I call it zoomed in, but it's scale.
So when you think zoom, think scale.
And so
what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna go from,
and we're gonna start at that scaled and
translated position.
So we're gonna say, transform: translatey.
Let's just say a 100% for now.
And we also want to scale 1.5.
Then we have to add that animation, so
.headings, we have animation: headings.
And it seems it happens over 4 seconds.
So let's try that.
First of all, let's see that looks, wow.
Okay, so
that's something [LAUGH] it's working.
Just make sure that they're centered.
It all looks that Star Wars [LAUGH]
sort of thing, [LAUGH] yeah.
So actually we're not going to
translate why they get you what,
yeah, we'll keep it.
So from to, and so
this is actually going to stay from,
remember we have three parts.
We have the beginning, that halfway
parts where we start scaling out,
and then we have the end parts where
we're just in our normal position.
So this is gonna be from 50%, and
then two we have a transform of none.
So we also want to add in
the animation for the first heading.
So we're gonna do that right over here.
Keyframes, I'm just gonna
call this first-heading.
And so this one,
let's take a look at the video again.
So we are going to sort of do that
cool little wipe animation or
swipe, and
then just let the container zoom out.
So that's gonna happen in
the first half of the animation.
So when you're doing this you want to keep
it in line with all the other animations.
And this is something I didn't really
talk about earlier in the workshop but
choreographing animations
is pretty difficult.
It's pretty fun once you get
the hang of it but unfortunately CSS
doesn't give you a lot of good
utilities to really reliably do that.
So over here we're going to have from,
and this is going to be,
let's see what opacity first just
to make sure that it's working.
And then at 50% we want opacity: 1, and
we also want this for our ending state.
Okay, so here's what that looks like.
It, well, we didn't add the animation.
That's, oops.
So h1:first-child, we are going to add
the animation of first-heading,
4 seconds both.
Okay, so
this is going to to be transparent and
then it's going to come back in like that.
So now we want one for the second heading.
So keyframes second-heading.
And so this one is actually going to have
opacity at 0 at the beginning, and at 50%.
And it's not until the very end where
it actually becomes fully opaque.
So that's second half of the animation.
So we had this.
Again, I forgot to add it, here we go.
Here we go, okay, come on.
I forgot there is no second child,
there is, [LAUGH] child 2, okay.
Here we go.
So this does that, and then there we go.
So the last part of
this is we want to have
a different animation than that opacity.
And so this is actually really cool.
I really liked doing this but
you could add clip-path and
you could give it a polygon.
And so this, here let me just show you
this cuz it's really, really useful.
There is a clip-path maker over here.
And so basically for clip-path polygon you
are defining each of the points over here.
So what I'm going to do is,
actually let me look at the video again.
Okay, so
we're going from the left to the right.
And so the way that I'm gonna do
this clip-path is these four points
are pretty much gonna be
all the way at the left and
then those two points are going
to be moving to the right.
So we're going to start
with these this first one,
the second one, and
then the third one is at 0% 100%,
and the fourth one is at 0% 100%.
And so now we just make sure,
I mean this isn't doing the fade thing,
it's hard to do that in CSS,
it is possible but also pretty difficult.
And now we're going to just make this
polygon expand from the left all
the way to the right.
So 100 0, 100 100, 0 100, all right?
And then the last thing I want to do
is I want to just change how this
headings thing is just because
it's moving a little bit too far.
So, There we go.